>> Scott Moss: Let's
dive into our first one.
So, form actions,
there's a lot to say here.
There's a lot of pain on my side that I
went through [LAUGH] using these when they
first came out, but now we're on the other
side and everything looks great.
And API's have been formalized and
settled, and there's tons
of different use cases and patterns, and
still more evolving every single day.
So, I'm more than excited to
talk about form actions and
how they work and next year.
So, first, in order to understand that,
you got to know what server
components the server actions are.
If you don't know what server components
are from the intro course, or
never really kind of thought about it.
There's a difference between
a server component and
server side rendering, right?
Server side rendering is for,
in the case of Next.js, it's literally for
every single component.
Every component is gonna
be a server side rendered,
whether it's a client component or
a server component, it's always gonna be
server side rendered unless you
import it with the next dynamic.
Unless you lazy load it, basically,
if you don't lazy load it,
it's gonna be imported,
it's gonna be rendered on the server.
A server component is a component that
gets executed on a server per route.
So it's a slight difference, so rendering
is basically like, I'm gonna take this,
I'm gonna see if I can create
a static version of this.
As in,
I'm gonna see if I can output some HTML,
let me see if I can create
an HTML string for this.
There's like a whole hydration step and
things like that.
Server component is basically like,
every time someone hits this route,
run this function, right?
That function just happens
to be a component,
that's what a server component is.
So it's slightly different than
server side rendering, which,
depending on the component,
could be an initial render,
could be something that
revalidates things like that.
So, that's the difference there, I think
people get confused about that because
the naming, server component,
server side rendering.
Maybe to figure it out,
the naming is really confusing.
Server action, so with a server component,
you're able to, if you've used the app
directory before, you know that you
can make your components asynchronous.
And you can do anything that you can do on
the backend inside the component, so this
means, like, accessing a database directly
without having to go over the wire.
Literally accessing the file
system if you wanted to,
anything you can do on the back end you
can do in that component asynchronously.
And then, so they kind of just
built that a little further and
made another abstraction,
which is something called a server action.
You can think of a server action as like
the equivalent of what you would have done
for a post request.
So, typically like on a form,
you unsubmit,
you make a fetch to do a post request
to some server to send the data up,
you get the data back, and
that's how you submit the form.
Well, it's kinda eliminating that process
of having to go over the wire, and
instead, we can create a function on the
server that gets executed when some action
is triggered.
In this case,
it'll be when a form is submitted.
And that way we don't have to go over the
wire, I mean, technically it's still going
over the wire, but
you'd have to make a route for it.
So that's basically what a server
action is, it's a function that runs
on the server, that can be called on the
client and it would trigger some logic.
And then there's like different ways
to like handle it or stuff like that.
We'll get into it,
this is just the high level.
Some of the other cool things about form
actions is that it really simplifies how
we manage each form's field.
So, before you had to like,
make a state for this field,
eventually you probably just like
made one object state and did that.
Eventually from there you would go install
some form hook that someone made, and
you would use that, and it's,
cuz it's like managing state
reform is quite complicated.
Now we don't have to do that,
I can't remember the last time I actually
made a controlled input using this.
A controlled input is when you
add the value of an input, and
then you do like an on change, and
then you feed that back into it.
That's just the standard, but
I don't remember the last time I did that,
which feels great because it's so tedious
setting that up, and you'll see why.
And then there's some other stuff in
here that it doesn't really matter
talking about.
It's better just to show you, but
basically there's some hooks in here that
help us do what I just said as
far as like, the form state,
do optimistic updates, keeping
track of changes, things like that.